=head1 NAME

Net::Atalk - Convenience functions for AppleTalk socket operations

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Net::Atalk;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Net::Atalk> provides various common convenience functions for
operating on AppleTalk (DDP) sockets. Specifically, it contains
functions similar to the C<Socket> package for packing AppleTalk
host addresses, and packing addresses and ports into C<struct sockaddr_at>
structure format for AppleTalk socket operations.

=over

=item atalk_aton

Pack a string form AppleTalk host address.

=item atalk_ntoa

Unpack a packed AppleTalk address back to string form.

=item sockaddr_at

If given a single argument, the argument is assumed to be a packed
C<struct sockaddr_at>, and is unpacked into the constituent port
number and packed AppleTalk host address.

If multiple arguments are given, the arguments are assumed to be a
port number and a packed AppleTalk host address, and a packed
C<struct sockaddr_at> is returned containing them.

=item pack_sockaddr_at

Accepts a DDP port number and a packed AppleTalk host address. Returns
a packed C<struct sockaddr_at> structure.

=item unpack_sockaddr_at

Accepts a packed C<struct sockaddr_at>. Returns the DDP port number and
packed AppleTalk host address as an array.

=back

=head1 REFERENCES

The AppleTalk Session Protocol implementation contained herein is based
on the protocol description as provided by Apple, in the book "Inside
AppleTalk", chapter 11. "Inside AppleTalk" is available freely via the
Internet in PDF form, at:

L<http://developer.apple.com/MacOs/opentransport/docs/dev/Inside_AppleTalk.pdf>

=head1 SEE ALSO

C<Net::Atalk::ATP>

=head1 AUTHOR

Derrik Pates <demon@now.ai>

=cut
