=head1 NAME

Net::Atalk::ASP - Object interface for AppleTalk Session Protocol

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Net::Atalk::ASP;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Net::Atalk::ASP> provides an object-based interface to interacting with
AppleTalk Session Protocol-based services, specifically AFP. It builds on
the L<Net::Atalk::ATP> interface to implement the command semantics.

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

=over

=item new (HOST, PORT)

Creates a C<Net::Atalk::ASP> object. Requires an AppleTalk host address
and DDP port number.

=back

=head2 METHODS

=over

=item close ()

Discontinue an active ASP session.

=item SPGetParms (RESP_R)

The C<SPGetParms> call retrieves the maximum values of the command block
size and the quantum size.

RESP_R must be a scalar ref which will contain a hash ref with the size
bound information. The hash will contain the following:

=over

=item MaxCmdSize

The maximum size of a command block.

=item QuantumSize

The maximum size for a command reply or a write.

=back

=item SPGetStatus (RESP_R)

The C<SPGetStatus> call is used by a workstation ASP client to obtain
status information for a particular server.

RESP_R must be a scalar ref which will contain a hash ref with the
parsed structure data from the SPGetStatus call.

=item SPOpenSession

The C<SPOpenSession> call is issued by an ASP client after obtaining the
internet address of the SLS (server listening socket) through an NBPLookup
call. If a session is successfully opened, then a session reference
number is returned and stored in the session object, to be used for
all subsequent calls in this session. If a session cannot be opened,
an appropriate SPError value is returned.

=item SPCloseSession

The C<SPCloseSession> call can be issued at any time by the ASP client to
close a session previously opened through an C<SPOpenSession> call. As a
result of the call, the session reference number is invalidated and
cannot be used for any further calls. In addition, all pending activity
on the session is immediately canceled.

=item SPCommand (MESSAGE, RESP_R)

Once a session has been opened, the workstation end client can send a
command to the server end by issuing an C<SPCommand> call to ASP. A
command block of maximum size (L<MaxCmdSize>) can be sent with the
command. If the length of MESSAGE is greater than the maximum allowable
size, the call returns an error of kASPSizeErr; in this case, no effort
is made to send anything to the server end.

MESSAGE contains the binary data for the outgoing request. RESP_R must
be a scalar ref that will contain the reassembled response data, if any,
received from the server in response to the request sent.

=item SPWrite (MESSAGE, DATA_R, D_LEN, RESP_R)

The C<SPWrite> call is made by the ASP client in order to write a block
of data to the server end of the session. The call first delivers the
command block (no larger than L<MaxCmdSize>) to the server end client
of the ASP session and, as previously described, the server end can
then transfer the write data or return an error (delivered in the
result code field).

The actual amount of data sent will be less than or equal to the
length of the data chunk provided and will never be larger than
L<QuantumSize>. The amount of write data actually transferred is
returned in the response block.

In response to an C<SPWrite>, the server end returns two quantities:
a 4-byte command result code and a variable-length command reply
that is returned in the reply buffer. Note that this reply can be
no larger than L<QuantumSize>.

MESSAGE contains the binary data for the outgoing request. DATA_R must
be a scalar ref to the binary data to be written to the server. RESP_R
must be a scalar ref that will contain the reassembled response data
received from the server in response to the request sent.

=back

=head1 REFERENCES

The AppleTalk Session Protocol implementation contained herein is based
on the protocol description as provided by Apple, in the book "Inside
AppleTalk", chapter 11. "Inside AppleTalk" is available freely via the
Internet in PDF form, at:

L<http://developer.apple.com/MacOs/opentransport/docs/dev/Inside_AppleTalk.pdf>

=head1 SEE ALSO

C<Net::Atalk::ATP>

=head1 AUTHOR

Derrik Pates <demon@now.ai>

=cut
