=head1 NAME

Net::Atalk::ZIP - AppleTalk Zone Information Protocol operations

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Net::Atalk::ZIP;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Net::Atalk::ZIP> provides functions for getting information about
AppleTalk zones, including getting the local zone name, enumerating
zones known to AppleTalk routers, and net number range information
for known zones.

=over

=item ZIPQuery (NETNUM, ...)

Requests mapping of AppleTalk network numbers to their corresponding
ZIP zone names. Multiple zones may be resolved in a single lookup.

=item ZIPGetZoneList (FROMADDR, STARTINDEX)

Get a list of known zones, starting at the given offset. Optionally specify
the local address to issue the queries from; C<undef> otherwise. Upon
success, returns an array reference containing the zone list.

=item ZIPGetLocalZones (FROMADDR, STARTINDEX)

Get a list of known zones for the local network segment, starting at
the given offset. Optionally specify the local address to issue the
queries from; C<undef> otherwise. Upon success, returns an array
reference containing the list of local zones.

=item ZIPGetMyZone (FROMADDR)

Get the zone the local machine is associated with. Optionally specify
the local address to issue the queries from; C<undef> otherwise. Upon
success, returns the name of the current host's assigned zone.

=item ZIPGetNetInfo (ZONENAME) 

Inquire about network information for a specific AppleTalk zone. Returns a
hash ref, containing network number range and other information.

=back

=head1 REFERENCES

The Zone Information Protocol implementation contained herein is based
on the protocol description as provided by Apple, in the book "Inside
AppleTalk", chapter 8. "Inside AppleTalk" is available freely via the
Internet in PDF form, at:

L<http://developer.apple.com/MacOs/opentransport/docs/dev/Inside_AppleTalk.pdf>

Also, netatalk's libatalk and getzones tool were used as source references
for development (see L<http://netatalk.sourceforge.net/>).

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Net::Atalk>, L<IO::Socket::DDP>

=cut
